---
title: General FAQ
description: An assortment of frequently asked questions about Ente Photos
---

# General FAQ

## How can I earn free storage?

Use our [referral program](/photos/features/referral-program/).

## What file formats does Ente support?

Ente supports all files that have a mime type of `image/*` or `video/*`
regardless of their specific format.

However, we only have limited support for RAW currently. We are working towards
adding full support, and you can watch this
[thread](https://github.com/ente-io/ente/discussions/625) for updates.

If you find an issue with ente's ability to parse a certain file type, please
write to [support@ente.io](mailto:support@ente.io) with details of the
unsupported file format and we will do our best to help you out.

## Is there a file size limit?

Yes, we currently do not support files larger than 4 GB.

If this constraint is a concern for you, please write to
[support@ente.io](mailto:support@ente.io) with your use case and we will do our
best to help you.

## Does Ente support videos?

Ente supports backing up and downloading of videos in their original format and
quality.

But some of these formats cannot be streamed on the web browser and you will be
prompted to download them.

## Why does Ente consume lesser storage than other providers?

Most storage providers compute your storage quota in GigaBytes (GBs) by dividing
your total bytes uploaded by `1000 x 1000 x 1000`.

Ente on the other hand, computes your storage quota in GibiBytes (GiBs) by
dividing your total bytes uploaded by `1024 x 1024 x 1024`.

We decided to leave out the **i** from **GiBs** to reduce noise on our
interfaces.

## Why should I trust Ente for long-term data-storage?

Unlike large companies, we have a focused mission, to build a safe space where
you can easily archive your personal memories.

This is the only thing we want to do, and with our pricing model, we can
profitably do it.

We preserve your data end-to-end encrypted, and our open source apps have been
[externally audited](https://ente.io/blog/cryptography-audit/).

Also, we have spent great deal of engineering effort into designing reliable
data replication and graceful disaster recovery plans. This is also done
transparently - we have documented the specifics of our replication and
reliability [here](https://ente.io/reliability).

In short, we love what we do, we have no reasons to be distracted, and we are as
reliable as any one can be.

If you would like to fund the development of this project, please consider
[subscribing](https://ente.io/download).

## How do I pronounce ente?

It's like cafe ðŸ˜Š. kaf-_ay_. en-_tay_.

## Does Ente apply compression to uploaded photos?

Ente does not apply compression to uploaded photos. The file size of your photos
in Ente will be similar to the original file sizes you have.

## Can I add photos from a shared album to albums that I created in Ente?

On Ente's mobile apps, you can add photos from an album that's shared with you,
into one of your own albums. This will create a copy of the item that you fully
own, and will count against your storage quota.

## How do I ensure that the Ente desktop app stays up to date on my system?

Ente desktop includes an auto-update feature, ensuring that whenever updates are
deployed, the app will automatically download and install them. You don't need
to manually update the software.

## Can I sync a folder containing multiple subfolders, each representing an album?

Yes, when you drag and drop the folder onto the desktop app, the app will detect
the multiple folders and prompt you to choose whether you want to create a
single album or separate albums for each folder.

## How do I identify which files experienced upload issues within the desktop app?

Check the sections within the upload progress bar for "Failed Uploads," "Ignored
Uploads," and "Unsuccessful Uploads."

## How do I keep NAS and Ente photos synced?

Please try using our CLI to pull data into your NAS
https://github.com/ente-io/ente/tree/main/cli#readme.

## Is there a way to view all albums on the map view?

Currently, the Ente mobile app allows you to see a map view of all the albums by
clicking on "Your map" under "Locations" on the search screen.
